---
title: 'Lending Data from UCC-1 Filings'
date: 2019-07-15
permalink: /posts/UCC/
tags:
  - data
  - ucc
  - lending
  - small business lending

---

This file describes the institutional details behind the Uniform Commercial Code and describes data sources for researchers interested in studying secured lending in the U.S.

While most of this post focuses on business lending, UCC-1 filings are made for individual debtors as well and can be accessed similarly from sources desbribed below 

Uniform Commercial Code 
======

The UCC is a set of laws governing commercial transactions in the U.S., such as sales, leases, and rentals. Article 9 of the UCC deals with secured transactions. 

Under Article 9 of UCC, secured creditors have the right to make a public filing specifying the assets (personal property) of the borrower over which the creditor has a claim in case of default. These filings determine priority order of crediors in bankruptcy, with priority decided in the order of filing. Without the UCC filing, a lender is not considered a secured party, irrespective of the details underlying the loan contract. Electronic filings cost roughly $25 to make. 

<h3>Information Contained</h3>

<ul>
  <li> <b>Borrower</b> - Legal name and address </li>
  <li> <b>Lender</b> - Name and address (sometimes, name of the agency filing on behalf of the lender)</li>
  <li> <b>Collateral</b> - Detailed description of firm assets pledged in the loan </li>
</ul>


<h3>Types of Collateral Covered</h3>

<ul>
  <li> "Personal property" by UCC definitions includes consumer goods, equipment, inventory, general intangibles, farm products and fixtures  </li>
  <li> Includes property not covered by title laws. For example, motor vehicles do not require UCC-1 filings for creation of security interest under Artcile 9. However, certain court rulings have opened up debate on the need for UCC-1 filings on titled property (see for <a href="https://www.cscglobal.com/blog/court-finds-certificate-of-title-alone-not-sufficient-to-create-security-interest"> example</a>). Thus, for security, many lenders file UCC-1 filings even for titled property.      </li>
  <li> Similarly, a true lease -wherein the lessor holds the ownership rights, and can repossess the item in case of failure to pay- does not require UCC-1 filings for security interest on assets. But, leases which are in fact secured transactions (refer <a href = "https://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/the-ucc-commercial-lease-contracts.html"> here </a> for differences), require the lender to make a UCC filing for security. Many times, though, because of potential grey-area in how courts interpret whether a lease can be classified as a "true-lease", leassors make UCC filings even for true leases.   </li>
  <li> Real-estate, while covered by UCC laws, require filings at local (usually county) offices. Researchers collecting data from state-level filings will miss these recordings. The reason for local filing of transaction information for real estate is to help link the piece of land to local land registry records. Often, lenders accepting real-estate in combination with personal property (requiring UCC-1 filing) describe the real estate in the description of collateral under UCC-1 filings.    </li>
</ul>


Texas Data
------

Bulk download of the Texas data can be obtained from the Texas Secretary of State Website 
<a href = "https://direct.sos.state.tx.us/help/help-ucc.asp?pg=bulk"> here</a>
  


California Data
------

For  a detailed description of the California data, please refer to:

Edgerton, Jesse, 2012. "Credit Supply and Business Investment During the Great Recession: 
Evidence from Public Records of Equipment Financing". Working Paper.


Data Cleaning
-------

Below are some tips to keep in my mind while processing the UCC data for use

<ul>
  <li> UCC-1 filings are made to stake claim on a debtor's property - </li>
    
</ul>


Comparison to CRA Data
=========
